Lesen Sie diesen Text auf Deutsch
NATO, the
most successful military alliance in history, is brain dead, according to
French President Emmanuel Macron. Asked by the Economist if he
believed that NATO’s commitment to Article 5 of the alliance's founding treaty
– the promise that if one member state were attacked, the others would come its
aid – was still functional, the French president replied: "I don’t know."
I do know, and
the answer is a resounding: "Yes." I served five times in NATO, including stints
in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, in Turkey and in Germany. In my last assignment
in the Army, from November 2014 until the end of 2017, I served as commanding general
of U.S. Army Europe (USAREUR), headquartered in Wiesbaden, Germany. During
these many years of service as a NATO officer working with our allies, I never
doubted that the alliance would respond to an armed attack on one of its members.

The recent
statement by President Macron, made on the eve of the just-finished NATO summit
in London, was widely criticized by most NATO member states, including Germany.
Nonetheless, it has generated serious discussion and it has put additional
pressure on the German government. France, after all, has nuclear weapons and a
permanent seat on the UN Security Council. It can talk, to a certain extent, about
"strategic autonomy." 
Germany,
though, has neither nuclear weapons nor a permanent seat on the Council, which
is part of the reason why successive German governments have long regarded NATO
as one of its central strategic pillars. If NATO were, in fact, "brain dead,"
Germany would have much to lose. 
But if NATO is so
important to Germany’s security, why doesn’t Germany do what is required to
ensure the alliance's continued strength? Germany needs a more visible, more dynamic
presence within NATO, it needs to integrate more with the alliance to make it
impossible for the American or French president to undermine NATO or even
consider leaving.
Instead,
there is a frustrating strategic inertia in Berlin, a reluctance to have a
serious public debate about Germany’s strategic role in the world. This
reluctance has become a major hindrance to the country's full engagement with
NATO. 
61, served until the end of 2017 as commanding general of the U.S. Army in Europe, where he was responsible for around 40,000 soldiers in 51 countries.One of the
most visible manifestations of this inertia is Germany's failure to muster the
political will to invest more in its own defense, as the country has repeatedly
pledged to do. That failure means Germany is not doing its part for NATO's
collective security.
At present, eight of the 29 NATO member states are fulfilling their
obligation to spend at least 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense. This
figure is projected to improve significantly by the agreed-upon target date of
2024, with most NATO members expected to achieve this target on time. Germany
is not one of them.
Germans
frequently complain that President Trump is "destroying NATO." While that
is too strong, it is indeed unhelpful when the U.S. president casts doubt on
America’s commitment to NATO and to our European allies.
Yet it’s just
as damaging to the cohesion of the alliance when one of its most prosperous members
fails to fulfil its defense budget obligation. An increase in the defense
budget to 2 percent of GDP doesn't have to mean a significantly larger
Bundeswehr, as the German military is known. But failing to do so prevents
Germany from maintaining an appropriate level of readiness, from providing sufficient
cyber defense of critical infrastructure to having enough transportation for
military use. Furthermore, it prevents Germany from providing
adequate air and missile defense.
