Gabriel Zucman is a French economist who teaches at the University of California – Berkley. Zucman has published influential academic articles on wealth inequality and taxation issues and has worked together with economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty. His most recent book, "The Triumph of Injustice," was published in October 2019. In the U.S. presidential election campaign, Democratic candidates Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders have included elements of his proposals in a new tax policy.
Lesen Sie dieses Interview auf Deutsch
ZEIT ONLINE: Mr. Zucman, in your new book you co-wrote with
Emmanuel Saez, called "The Triumph of Injustice," you write that the U.S.
is more like a plutocracy than a democracy when it comes to the tax system. Could
you explain what that means? 
Gabriel Zucman: When you take into account all taxes at all
levels, you see that basically all groups of the population – working class,
middle class and upper class – pay roughly the same effective tax rate of around
25 to 30 percent of total income. The only exception is the top 400 richest
Americans. Their effective tax rate is only around 23 percent. The tax system
in the U.S. is nothing more than a giant flat tax. This is a triumph of injustice
and is, above all, a rejection of democracy, because most changes in taxation
are not due to a sudden popular demand for relief for the rich, but rather they
are due to forces that have prevailed without the voters' say. 
ZEIT ONLINE: It hasn't always been this way in the United States. 
Zucman: No, it hasn't. It's important to realize is
that this situation is a dramatic departure from the country's history. Many
people have forgotten that the U.S. used to have the most progressive tax
system in the world. From the 1930s to the 1980s, the top marginal income tax
rate averaged 78 percent. Rates as high as 70 percent remained in place until
Ronald Reagan took office in 1981. 
ZEIT ONLINE: Why was that? Was there just a greater sense for
equality and justice? 
Zucman: Politicians at the time wanted to reduce
inequality. Too much inequality was seen as a bad thing for policymaking and
for democracy. It's also bad for the functioning of a market economy. 
ZEIT ONLINE: How so? 
Zucman: Wealth is power. An extreme concentration of
wealth at the top also means an extreme concentration of political and economic
power at the top. This view is as old as the U.S. itself. For instance James Madison, a key participant in the drafting of the U.S. Constitution and a hero to
modern-day conservatives, wrote that the excessive concentration of wealth is
corrosive. It is as bad for a republic as being in a state of war. 
ZEIT ONLINE: When you look at inequality today, is the U.S.
already in a state of war? 
Zucman: It depends on what level of inequality you
deem too excessive. There is no scientific answer to that. But it’s plausible
that the U.S. is past the point where inequality becomes detrimental to the
whole society. Most economists would agree that a certain amount of inequality
is good; it provides incentive to work, to innovate and to invest. But at a
certain point, the negative effects dominate. The U.S. might have already
reached that point. 
ZEIT ONLINE: Can you give an example? 
Zucman: Just look at the income of the working class, which
makes up about 50 percent of the total U.S. population. Their real income has
stagnated since 1980. That means zero growth in the last 40 years. At the same time,
income and wealth has skyrocketed for the top 1 percent. And look what is happening
to life expectancy. It’s falling! In 1980, life expectancy in the U.S. was the
same as in any other industrialized country. Now it’s two to three years below
the OECD average. For the rich, it is still rising, but it's falling for the
working class and the poor. This phenomenon is unique in the Western world. The
only other example of falling life expectancy during peacetime is Russia when
it was going through the chaotic transition from communism to a market economy. 
